When you build your neural network,
one of the choices you get to make is what
activation function to
use in the hidden layers,
as well as what is the output
units of your neural network.
So far, we've just been using
the sigmoid activation function.
But sometimes other choices
can work much better.
Let's take a look at some of the options.
In the fourth propagation steps for
the neural network,
we have these three steps where
we use the sigmoid function here.
So that sigmoid is called
an activation function.
And here's the familiar sigmoid function,
a equals one over one
plus e to the negative z.
So in the more general case,
we can have a different function,
g of z, which I'm going to write here,
where g could be a nonlinear function
that may not be the sigmoid function.
So for example, the sigmoid function
goes within zero and one, and
activation function that almost always
works better than the sigmoid function
is the tangent function or
the hyperbolic tangent function.
So this is z, this is a,
this is a equals tanh(z),
and this goes between plus 1 and minus 1.
The formula for the tanh function is e to
the z minus e to the negative
z over their sum.
And is actually mathematically,
a shifted version of the sigmoid function.
So, as a sigmoid function just like that,
but shifted so
that it now crosses a zero zero point and
v scale, so it goes 15 minus 1 and plus 1.
And it turns out for hidden units,
if you let the function g
of z be equal to tanh(z),
this almost always works
better than the sigmoid
function because the values between plus 1
and minus 1, the mean of the activations
that come out of your head, and
they are closer to having a 0 mean.
And so just as sometimes when
you train a learning algorithm,
you might center the data and
have your data have 0 mean using
a tanh instead of a sigmoid function.
It kind of has the effect
of centering your data so
that the mean of your data is
closer to 0 rather than, maybe 0.5.
And this actually makes learning for
the next layer a little bit easier.
We'll say more about this in the second
course when we talk about optimization
algorithms as well.
But one takeaway is that I
pretty much never use the sigmoid
activation function anymore.
The tanh function is almost
always strictly superior.
The one exception is for the output
layer because if y is either 0 or
1, then it makes sense for
y hat to be a number,
the one to output that's between 0 and
1 rather than between minus 1 and 1.
So the one exception where
I would use the sigmoid
activation function is when you
are using binary classification,
in which case you might use the sigmoid
activation function for the output layer.
So g of z 2 here is equal to sigma of z 2.
And so what you see in this example
is where you might have a tanh
activation function for the hidden layer,
and sigmoid for the output layer.
So deactivation functions can be
different for different layers.
And sometimes to note that activation
functions are different for
different layers, we might use these
square bracket superscripts as well to
indicate that g of square bracket one may
be different than g of square bracket two.
And again, square bracket one
superscript refers to this layer, and
superscript square bracket two
refers to the output layer.
Now, one of the downsides of
both the sigmoid function and
the tanh function is that if z is
either very large or very small,
then the gradient or the derivative or the
slope of this function becomes very small.
So if z is very large or z is very small,
the slope of the function
ends up being close to 0.
And so
this can slow down gradient descent.
So one other choice
that is very popular in
machine learning is what's
called the rectify linear unit.
So the value function looks like this.
And the formula is a = max(0,z).
So the derivative is 1,
so long as z is positive.
And the derivative or
the slope is 0, when z is negative.
If you're implementing this,
technically the derivative when z
is exactly 0 is not well defined.
But when you implement
this in the computer,
the answer you get exactly
is z equals 0000000000000.
It's very small so you don't need
to worry about it in practice.
You could pretend the derivative,
when z is equal to 0,
you can pretend it's either 1 or 0 and
then you kind of work just fine.
So the fact that it's not differentiable,
and the fact that, so
here are some rules of thumb for
choosing activation functions.
If your output is 0, 1 value,
if you're using binary classification,
then the sigmoid activation function is a
very natural choice for the output layer.
And then for all other unit's ReLU,
or the rectified linear unit,
Is increasingly the default
choice of activation function.
So if you're not sure what to use for
your hidden layer,
I would just use the ReLU
activation function.
It's what you see most
people using most days.
Although sometimes people also
use the tanh activation function.
One disadvantage of the ReLU is that
the derivative is equal to zero,
when z is negative.
In practice, this works just fine.
But there is another version of
the ReLU called the leaky ReLU.
I will give you the formula
on the next slide.
But instead of it being
0 when z is negative,
it just takes a slight slope like so,
so this is called the leaky ReLU.
This usually works better than
the ReLU activation function,
although it's just not
used as much in practice.
Either one should be fine, although,
if you had to pick one,
I usually just use the ReLU.
And the advantage of both the ReLU and
the leaky ReLU is that for
a lot of the space of Z,
the derivative of the activation function,
the slope of the activation
function is very different from 0.
And so in practice,
using the ReLU activation function,
your neural network will often learn
much faster than when using the tanh or
the sigmoid activation function.
And the main reason is that there is
less of these effects of the slope of
the function going to 0,
which slows down learning.
And I know that for half of the range
of z, the slope of ReLU is 0,
but in practice, enough of your hidden
units will have z greater than 0.
So learning can still be quite fast for
most training examples.
So let's just quickly recap the pros and
cons of different activation functions.
Here's a sigmoid activation function.
I will say never use this,
except for the output layer,
if you are doing binary classification,
or maybe almost never use this.
And the reason I almost never
use this is because the tanh
is pretty much strictly superior.
So the tanh activation function is this.
And then the default,
the most commonly used activation
function is the ReLU, which is this.
So if you're not sure what else to use,
use this one, and
maybe feel free also
to try the leaky ReLU.
Where it might be (0.01 z, z).
Right?
So a is the max of 0.01 times z and
z, so that gives you these
some bends in the function.
And you might say,
why is that constant 0.01?
Well, you can also make that another
parameter of the learning algorithm.
And some people say
that works even better.
But i hardly see people do that.
But if you feel like trying that in your
application, please feel free to do so.
And you can just see how it works,
and how well it works, and
stick with it if it
gives you a good result.
So I hope that gives you a sense of some
of the choices of activation functions you
can use in your neural network.
One of the themes we'll see in deep
learning is that you often have a lot of
different choices in how you
code your neural network.
Ranging from number of hidden units,
to the choice activation function,
to how you initialize the ways
which we'll see later.
A lot of choices like that.
And it turns out that it's sometimes
difficult to get good guidelines for
exactly what would work best for
your problem.
So throughout these courses I
keep on giving you a sense of
what I see in the industry in terms
of what's more or less popular.
But for your application,
with your application's idiosyncrasies,
it's actually very difficult to know
in advance exactly what will work best.
So a common piece of advice would be,
if you're not sure which one of these
activation functions work best,
try them all, and evaluate on
a holdout validation set, or a development
set, which we'll talk about later, and
see which one works better,
and then go with that.
And I think that by testing these
different choices for your application,
you'd be better at future-proofing your
neural network architecture against
the idiosyncracies of your problem,
as well as evolutions of the algorithms.
Rather than if I were to tell you
always use a ReLU activation and
don't use anything else.
That just may or may not apply for
whatever problem you end up working on
either in the near future or
in the distant future.
All right, so that was the choice
of activation functions and
you've seen the most popular
activation functions.
There's one other question
that sometimes you could ask,
which is, why do you even need to
use an activation function at all?
Why not just do away with that?
So let's talk about that
in the next video, where
you see why neural networks do need some
sort of nonlinear activation function.